.TH pious_chmoddir 3PIOUS "25 January 1995" " " "PIOUS"
.SH NAME
pious_chmoddir \- set directory file permission bits

.SH SYNOPSIS C
int pious_chmoddir(char *path, pious_modet mode);

int pious_schmoddir(struct pious_dsvec *dsv, int dsvcnt,
char *path, pious_modet mode);

.SH SYNOPSIS FORTRAN
subroutine piousfchmoddir(path, mode, rc)

subroutine piousfschmoddir(hname, spath, lpath, dsvcnt, path, mode, rc)

integer dsvcnt, mode, rc

character*(*) hname, spath, lpath, path


.SH DESCRIPTION
pious_chmoddir() sets the permission bits of directory file
.I path
to
.I mode
on all default data servers.  If directory
.I path
does not exist on a subset of the data servers, then the directory file
permission bits are set at the remaining servers.

pious_schmoddir() performs the same action as pious_chmoddir(), except that
the directory file permission bits are set on the data servers specified by the
.I dsvcnt
element vector
.I dsv.

Corresponding Fortran functions accept argument values of type integer
and character, as required, and return the result code in
.I rc.
In specifying a set of data servers,
.I hname, spath,
and
.I lpath
take the place of the C structure
.I dsv.

See pious_open() for a discussion on valid values for arguments
.I mode
and
.I dsv (hname, spath, lpath).


.SH RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, a value of PIOUS_OK (0) is returned.
Otherwise, a negative value is returned indicating an error condition.

Because a single error code is returned from potentially multiple operations,
the value returned is the first error encountered if any.


.SH ERRORS
The following error code values can be returned.

.TP
PIOUS_EINVAL
invalid argument value, or no data server executable on host

.TP
PIOUS_EACCES
path prefix search permission denied

.TP
PIOUS_ENOENT
file does not exist or
.I path
is the empty string

.TP
PIOUS_ENAMETOOLONG
path or path component name too long

.TP
PIOUS_ENOTDIR
a component of the path prefix is not a directory

.TP
PIOUS_EPERM
insufficient privileges to complete operation

.TP
PIOUS_EINSUF
insufficient system resources to complete operation

.TP
PIOUS_ETPORT
error condition in underlying transport system

.TP
PIOUS_EUNXP
unexpected error condition encountered

.TP
PIOUS_EFATAL
fatal error; check data server error logs



.SH SEE ALSO
pious_open(3PIOUS)
