.TH pious_rmdir 3PIOUS "25 January 1995" " " "PIOUS"
.SH NAME
pious_rmdir \- delete a directory file

.SH SYNOPSIS C
int pious_rmdir(char *path);

int pious_srmdir(struct pious_dsvec *dsv, int dsvcnt, char *path);

.SH SYNOPSIS FORTRAN
subroutine piousfrmdir(path, rc)

subroutine piousfsrmdir(hname, spath, lpath, dsvcnt, path, rc)

integer dsvcnt, rc

character*(*) hname, spath, lpath, path


.SH DESCRIPTION
pious_rmdir() deletes directory file
.I path
from all default data servers.
If directory
.I path
does not exist on a subset of the data servers, then the directory file
is deleted at the remaining servers.

pious_srmdir() performs the same action as pious_rmdir(), except that
the directory file is deleted from the data servers specified by the
.I dsvcnt
element vector
.I dsv.

Corresponding Fortran functions accept argument values of type integer
and character, as required, and return the result code in
.I rc.
In specifying a set of data servers,
.I hname, spath,
and
.I lpath
take the place of the C structure
.I dsv.


See pious_open() for a discussion on valid values for the
.I dsv (hname, spath, lpath)
argument(s).


.SH RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, a value of PIOUS_OK (0) is returned.
Otherwise, a negative value is returned indicating an error condition.

Because a single error code is returned from potentially multiple operations,
the value returned is the first error encountered other than PIOUS_ENOENT,
if any.


.SH ERRORS
The following error code values can be returned.

.TP
PIOUS_EINVAL
invalid argument value, or no data server executable on host

.TP
PIOUS_EACCES
path prefix search permission or write permission denied

.TP
PIOUS_EBUSY
directory in use

.TP
PIOUS_ENOTEMPTY
directory not empty

.TP
PIOUS_ENOENT
directory file does not exist or
.I path
is the empty string

.TP
PIOUS_ENAMETOOLONG
path or path component name too long

.TP
PIOUS_ENOTDIR
a component of the path prefix is not a directory

.TP
PIOUS_EINSUF
insufficient system resources to complete operation

.TP
PIOUS_ETPORT
error condition in underlying transport system

.TP
PIOUS_EUNXP
unexpected error condition encountered

.TP
PIOUS_EFATAL
fatal error; check data server error logs



.SH SEE ALSO
pious_open(3PIOUS)
