.TH pious_write 3PIOUS "25 January 1995" " " "PIOUS"
.SH NAME
pious_write \- write to a file

.SH SYNOPSIS C
pious_ssizet pious_write(int fd, char *buf, pious_sizet nbyte);

pious_ssizet pious_owrite(int fd, char *buf, pious_sizet nbyte,
pious_offt *offset);

pious_ssizet pious_pwrite(int fd, char *buf, pious_sizet nbyte,
pious_offt offset);

.SH SYNOPSIS FORTRAN
subroutine piousfwrite(fd, buf, nbyte, rc)

subroutine piousfowrite(fd, buf, nbyte, offset, rc)

subroutine piousfpwrite(fd, buf, nbyte, offset, rc)

integer fd, nbyte, offset, rc

FortranType buf(*)


.SH DESCRIPTION
pious_write() attempts to write
.I nbyte
bytes to the file associated with the open file descriptor
.I fd
from the buffer
.I buf.
Starting offset is determined by the file pointer associated with
.I fd.
Upon successful completion, the file pointer is incremented by the number of
bytes actually written.

pious_owrite() performs the same action as pious_write(), and returns the
starting offset, as determined by the file pointer, in
.I offset.

pious_pwrite() performs the same action as pious_write() except that the
starting offset is determined by
.I offset;
the file pointer associated with
.I fd
remains unaffected.

Corresponding Fortran functions accept argument values of type integer,
except
.I buf
which is an array of any data type,
and return the result code in
.I rc.

Any error in writing implies that the access, and associated user-transaction
if any, is aborted or that the PIOUS system state is inconsistent.

Note that the contents of the file is undefined from the byte immediately
following the last byte written up to the byte position intended for the
last byte of the write request.



.SH RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, a non-negative value indicating the number
of bytes written is returned.
Otherwise, a negative value is returned indicating an error condition.

.SH ERRORS
The following error code values can be returned.

.TP
PIOUS_EBADF
.I fd
is not a valid descriptor open for writing

.TP
PIOUS_EINVAL
.I offset,
.I nbyte,
or
.I buf
argument not a proper value or exceeds system constraints

.TP
PIOUS_EPERM
file and user-transaction faultmode inconsistent

.TP
PIOUS_EABORT
access/user-transaction aborted normally

.TP
PIOUS_EINSUF
insufficient system resources to complete operation

.TP
PIOUS_ETPORT
error condition in underlying transport system

.TP
PIOUS_EUNXP
unexpected error condition encountered

.TP
PIOUS_EFATAL
fatal error; check data server error logs

.SH SEE ALSO
pious_open(3PIOUS), pious_lseek(3PIOUS),
pious_tbegin(3PIOUS), pious_tabort(3PIOUS),
pious_sysinfo(3PIOUS)
