.TH pious_tbegin 3PIOUS "25 January 1995" " " "PIOUS"
.SH NAME
pious_tbegin \- begin a user-transaction

.SH SYNOPSIS C
int pious_tbegin(int faultmode);

.SH SYNOPSIS FORTRAN
subroutine piousftbegin(faultmode, rc)

integer faultmode, rc

.SH DESCRIPTION
pious_tbegin() marks the beginning of a user-transaction.  All read, write,
and seek
accesses performed after a successful pious_tbegin() and prior to a
pious_tend() or pious_tabort() are atomic with respect to concurrency.
Any number of files can be accessed within the context of a user-transaction,
and any PIOUS function can be called, though certain actions may be denied.

The user-transaction fault tolerance mode is specified by the argument
.I faultmode
as either PIOUS_STABLE or PIOUS_VOLATILE.
PIOUS_STABLE guarantees file consistency in the event of a system failure;
PIOUS_VOLATILE does not.
Presently, only PIOUS_VOLATILE is supported.

Note that within the context of a user-transaction, the fault tolerance
mode of any file accessed, as specified by pious_open(), must be the same as
that of the user-transaction.

The corresponding Fortran function accepts argument values of type integer,
and returns the result code in
.I rc.


.SH RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, a value of PIOUS_OK (0) is returned.
Otherwise, a negative value is returned indicating an error condition.

.SH ERRORS
The following error code values can be returned.

.TP
PIOUS_EINVAL
invalid
.I faultmode
argument

.TP
PIOUS_EPERM
user-transaction already in progress

.TP
PIOUS_EUNXP
unexpected error condition encountered

.SH SEE ALSO
pious_tabort(3PIOUS), pious_tend(3PIOUS), pious_open(3PIOUS),
pious_read(3PIOUS), pious_write(3PIOUS), pious_lseek(3PIOUS)
