.TH pious_mkdir 3PIOUS "25 January 1995" " " "PIOUS"
.SH NAME
pious_mkdir \- create a directory file

.SH SYNOPSIS C
int pious_mkdir(char *path, pious_modet mode);

int pious_smkdir(struct pious_dsvec *dsv, int dsvcnt,
char *path, pious_modet mode);

.SH SYNOPSIS FORTRAN
subroutine piousfmkdir(path, mode, rc)

subroutine piousfsmkdir(hname, spath, lpath, dsvcnt, path, mode, rc)

integer dsvcnt, mode, rc

character*(*) hname, spath, lpath, path


.SH DESCRIPTION
pious_mkdir() creates directory file
.I path,
with permission bits set according to
.I mode,
on all default data servers.  If directory
.I path
exists on a subset of the data servers, then the directory file
is created at the remaining servers.

pious_smkdir() performs the same action as pious_mkdir(), except that
the directory files are created on the data servers specified by the
.I dsvcnt
element vector
.I dsv.

Corresponding Fortran functions accept argument values of type integer
and character, as required, and return the result code in
.I rc.
In specifying a set of data servers,
.I hname, spath,
and
.I lpath
take the place of the C structure
.I dsv.

See pious_open() for a discussion on valid values for arguments
.I mode
and
.I dsv (hname, spath, lpath).


.SH RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, a value of PIOUS_OK (0) is returned.
Otherwise, a negative value is returned indicating an error condition.

Because a single error code is returned from potentially multiple operations,
the value returned is the first error encountered other than PIOUS_EEXIST,
if any.

.SH ERRORS
The following error code values can be returned.

.TP
PIOUS_EINVAL
invalid argument value, or no data server executable on host

.TP
PIOUS_EACCES
path prefix search permission or write permission denied


.TP
PIOUS_EEXIST
named file exists

.TP
PIOUS_ENOENT
path prefix component does not exist or
.I path
is the empty string

.TP
PIOUS_ENAMETOOLONG
path or path component name too long

.TP
PIOUS_ENOTDIR
a component of the path prefix is not a directory

.TP
PIOUS_ENOSPC
no space to extend directory or file system

.TP
PIOUS_EINSUF
insufficient system resources to complete operation

.TP
PIOUS_ETPORT
error condition in underlying transport system

.TP
PIOUS_EUNXP
unexpected error condition encountered

.TP
PIOUS_EFATAL
fatal error; check data server error logs



.SH SEE ALSO
pious_open(3PIOUS)
